

"Graphic Designers are trying to find the thing in your brain and do something cool with it"


This was, to me, the most important statement of the video. In any work made for a consumer, there is a very fine line with creative interpretation that can either bewilder and amaze the audience or leave them in a state of confusion; Sometimes we even losing them completely. The art here is this, to find lock on to a understanding that the audience may or may not be aware they possess and make it visual. To do this, graphic designers must see the same object from many angles and perspectives in order to creatively represent both the spectacular and the mundane. The lightbulb examples (Allgemeine's Elektricitats by Peter Brehens and Lighting Furtures Exhibition 1968 by Yusaku Kamehura) were excellent ways to showcase different ways of adding a lightbulb to a poster, the former using black as a base color for a bulb while adding a layer of colors as an outline while the latter uses white to show the intensity and coverage of the bulb.

On revisiting my favorite movie poster, I realize how creative their approach. The movie is about the discovery of an egg belonging to a foreign species, which eventually hatches to reveal the story's antagonist. The central themes of the movie are the consequences of human curiosity and greed and the isolation of space. Instead of using traditional elements of space movies like the shape, planets, starts, or even the Alien itself, the designer chose to very minimally represent the horror and fear of the movie. Spacing between the letters and the large amount of negative space flanking the egg creates mystery and the feeling of a void. At the bottom of the poster, which usually has a grounding effect, a loose net is placed with a radial light shining on it. From this composition, the designer has accurately captured the shrinking hope of the space crew, the mystery of the creature, and, with the addition of the small text "in space no one can hear you", the horror that will unfold from what hides in the dark. All without ever exposing the antagonist. 