
### Labs
[[Week 2 - Lab Work]]

### Reading and Research
[Bret Victor Continued](https://worrydream.com/ABriefRantOnTheFutureOfInteractionDesign/responses.html)

Diving deeper into Brett Victor's rants and ramblings, which I'm still mixed whether it's good thing, I decided to extrapolate some of the more concrete parts of his visions of the future. Though his original rant and the follow-up are over a decade old, his arguments about the future of interaction are still relevant, his questions still unanswered and his potential solutions still incredibly niche and underfunded. 

Taking a minute to push ourselves X years into a possible future timeline where designers and technologist put the human body front and center, where would we be? The easiest way to imagine this is a world full of gestures, voice commands, physical buttons and switches, and a lot of projection mapping. At first glance it seems to address most of his concerns around the obsession of the screen, of interfaces behind glass and the desensitization of the fingers. Even in our class discussion about the rant and [No to NoUI](https://archive.ph/nhyCI), there were several times I agreed that there is a dangerous pigeonholing of UI/UX meaning web and app development and that a fuller body experience is needed for some applications. Some people mentioned the need for more haptics and tactile feedback, even suggesting we bring buttons back. But to carelessly apply non-screen-based solutions is to fall into the same trap that kept most of our interactions behind screens for the last how many years. As Victor points out "... if all we have in twenty years is an iPad with a few haptic gimmicks, that'll be bad." and I agree. 

We can see this in voice recognition and voice-command based products like Siri and Alexa. Great for commands, maybe not so great for browsing Amazon to find the difference between two products, or for writing complex text messages. There are some things not suitable to be made into a command, such as actions that require visual recognition and feedback, and while voice recognition is definitely a step forward, especially in the real of [accessibility](https://www.w3.org/WAI/perspective-videos/voice/), it is only a part of the larger picture.

What about gestures? Gesture mapping has soared in popularity in recent years, especially with the constant evolution of vision models that are more accurate, faster, cheaper to run, and more accessible to the public ([YoloV8](https://yolov8.com/) comes to mind here). In a more niche community, my Instagram feed is filled with Touchdesigner visuals using [Torin's mediapipe extension](https://github.com/torinmb/mediapipe-touchdesigner) to manipulate 3D shapes, audio, and images with pinches and pulls. Is this closer? Victor, at least at the time of this article, may say somewhat, since we are using more of the body to aid in creation, understanding, and even computation, but we may also be straying too far away from the body for two reasons. One, as he puts it, "A large vocabulary of discrete abstract gestures is essentially a sign language. So I would think that everything that applies to voice also applies in this case". We make certain gestures like pulling, pinching, lifting, squeezing, etc. because the physical world **requires** it. According to Norman in The Design of Everyday Things, we know to do these motions through a combination of seeing available actions (signifiers and their respective affordances) and adjusting ourselves dynamically (based on feedback). Our hands don't move at random but twist and contort to address a need. Doing this movements in a physical space so we can project them onto a digital object removes the whole reason the positions our hands. We reduce complex motions to solve a problem to "gestures" that mimic our natural motions, without the natural objects that inspired them (I use "natural" in the same way that Timo Arnall hates, but unfortunately I believe the pursuit of "intuitive" interfaces is a big driver in the current adoption of gesture mapping. That topic needs it's own research and write-up though). The second reason, which really is an extension to the first, is that we actually aren't using anything with our hands. If in Victor's universe we eventually transcend the screen (in some cases, not all), then it doesn't make much sense to have the screen just be further from us (projected out to a surface) nor in our minds (the case of the invisible interface and the lack of feedback). To let go of the screen, without losing feedback or functionality, without relying on our limited cognitive capacity to solve problems and deepen understanding, without abandoning what humans do best (tool usage)…. is a tricky problem to solve.

At the time of the rant, Victor wrote: 
	"The point of the rant was that the solution will be discovered through long research, and that research won't happen without an awareness of the problem. My intent was to hopefully coax a few potential researchers and funders into tangible interfaces, dynamic materials, haptics, and related fields that haven't been named yet. If that happens, then mission accomplished."

A few years later some of that long research happened and Bret Victor would go on to found [Dynamicland](https://dynamicland.org/), part research project, part community workspace, and the most tangible evolution from traditional interfaces and even computing. Though it is still early days and I'm pretty sure it won't be a fairytale solution that solves all the problems, Dynamicland is a fascinating endeavor and is the most concrete culmination of these ideas we have to study.  [SVA's Pixel Lab](https://spatialpixel.com/), a more localized and AI focused alternative, is another. 

Stepping back to our reality, we see how massive a shift this would be in our everyday lives. It's just about impossible for one more person to have the answers, but reading Victor's work and the many (many many many...) resources, links, books, and articles he links in his writings has been a great rabbit hole to venture down. My hope is that I'll have a chance to visit Dynamicland one day, but until then I'll have to settle for more of other rants  and you'll have to settle on a follow-up blog, whenever that is, where I attempt to dive into four technologies called out by Bret Victor that are both core to Dynamicland's functionality, a step back into the physical world, and step forward to exciting forms of interaction:
* Tangible interfaces
* Dynamic materials
* Haptics
* Projection mapping

But back to [[Week 2 - Lab Work|circuits]].

